[Music]
had lunch outside of here actually so I
had a graduate student who was from
Ottawa no from Toronto then are you
sayin oh not Toronto Toronto and he told
me about this mythic food called poutine
I don't even know how to pronounce it
right and that there's a lot of echo
back and forth can you hear me okay
without right so and by the gracious
gracious invitation of one of the
persons here in this conference we went
out walked around Parliament Hill and
took some pictures and it took me to
this smoked something like poutine place
and really absolutely delectable french
fries on and on top of that there is
Korean barbecue so I had a Korean that
I'm Korean and and Canadian experience
and and I looked at the menu I made a
mistake of looking at the menu kind of
thing it was 1,450 calories so I didn't
have breakfast I had lunch I doubt I'll
have dinner or so so thanks again for
coming back to this afternoon for those
of you who weren't here last night my my
my day job where my job is I teach at
Vanderbilt University in Nashville and
the connection between auto and
Nashville is Mike Fisher so the Ottawa
Senators
- volt Reds guy and so I see my role as
an academic missionary and I'll get to
share a little bit more fully about that
so I think the title of this talk is
from atheist to Christian at Yale so I'd
like to talk about in four different
segments about my life journey and how
God has kind of gotten a hold of me and
taking me to a place that I never ever
imagined would be where I am standing in
front of you today
if I had in my own way I doubt I would a
left South Korea if I had in my own way
I would have become someone definitely
other than a professor
in a secular University in the history
religious studies and Divinity School
but anyway so for segments ones are kind
of their magnetic devices I suppose they
all start with I incarceration
immigration identification and inquiry
incarceration so my major life events
happened in six year intervals age nine
age 15 age 21 at age nine when I was in
grade 3 I was a happy-go-lucky boy and I
came home one night and one afternoon
and my mom said you know your dad won't
be home tonight and so I said okay and
he was he was entrepreneur but also I
knew that he has some political
connections and and he was doing things
that I wasn't always aware of next day
he didn't come home the following day he
didn't come home and my mom told us that
that our dad was in prison and he was
incarcerated under some trumped-up
charges and that we don't know when he
was coming home so I was never nurtured
in a Christian home as far as I could
tell that I didn't really have any
religion I think a lot of Westerners
assume that if you're from Korea or aged
particularly Korea you must be there
confusion of Buddhists they are I mean
preponderant number of people like that
but and there are also people who are
non-religious and I think ours was one
of them occasionally we would have you
know church attendance and things up
there so there are more like a Calandra
called piety rather than anything that
was meaningful and substantial so but so
think about when you were nine and I saw
that there was one young lady who was
nine years old and so I was that young
lady's age when my father was thrown
into prison and one thing that happened
to me and I don't because nobody ever
really told me about God no one really
kind of actually taught me about justice
per se anywhere
civics and ethics and such but I
remember this very distinct moment
saying to God God if you're around
please send my dad home and I don't know
it was some kind of extemporaneous
prayer or something like that no one
really taught me anything about prayer
but just and that was kind of pleading
or plea bargaining and then that went on
for awhile and then at the end of the
particular segment in my life I was
basically figuratively speaking shaking
my fist at God and saying you can't be
real you cannot possibly exist because
he threw my dad into prison and threw
away the key so to make a long story
short my father was released from prison
three years later so we were I was in
grade six and the next three years are
pretty much infernal very hellish so the
Korean government made it very difficult
for us to live in Korea so although we
didn't have the sort of a a Asylum
status but we ended up in the United
States and I left Korea thinking that
okay this is a country though is my
putative motherland but it has done
nothing less than just nearly destroy my
life so I was quite excited about coming
to America at age 15 so incarceration
and immigration so coming to America I
had lots of expectations of the good
life that will be awaiting me when I
came to the States and as a story would
as fate would have it or Providence
would have it we ended up at least for
the first seven days of our stay in
America in Los Angeles my uncle had
lived out in Southern California and he
took us to Disneyland and
Magic Mountain is that what it's called
and then was SeaWorld and things like
that Queen Elizabeth you know that big
kind of ship and so everything about my
first seven days of stay was wonderful
and that seemed to be a place where you
didn't have to speak English much and
then we ended up in Philadelphia where
my aunt my mom's older sister had lived
and my uncle had determined that I
actually would be better off I was a
ninth grader your grade 9 that I would
be better off going to an ESL program
but this particular year said ESL
program was actually held in the same
place as a local elementary school and
in grade 9 I was exactly this height and
I was kind of I was 15 and and I was
deeply mortified about just going to
school with at an elementary school
right I mean because I it was just a
period of trying to figure out who the
heck I was right I mean I was kind of
you're you're beginning to discover your
own kind of sexuality you discover girls
and guys and but you know you discover a
lot of things about yourself and desires
misdirected rightly kind of born and so
on and so forth and so my high school
years were absolutely miserable it was
terrible and we were instead of there
weren't that many Koreans but my parents
decided to go to church because so often
as you perhaps know some immigrants when
they come they may not have been
religious before but they find the sort
of local ethnic Enclave and then in
oftentimes religious organizations where
their mosques or temples or churches
play their role of kind of helping you
to be much more integrated so my parents
have started to go to church I need
nothing about the church I thought I'll
give it a go so Friday nights I would
have these kind of meetings of Friday
night Bible studies and the youth pastor
basically called in triple-b BBB right
so we had a Bible study and then we'll
go to Burger King and then we go bowling
and you know it's wonderful if done
rightly but I tend to be a very outgoing
guy but then something happened to my
personality when I came to America like
I was really happy go lucky guy I was
athletic and I was if I can just be yeah
I mean I thought people liked me I like
them there is you know I never really
felt like skeptical about my own ability
relate with people or befriend others
but coming to America basically just it
just was a traumatic experience but what
was really interesting or more traumatic
yet was my going to church I felt the
sense of alienation even moreso so the
Bible study you know okay no one system
with you and the Bible study that's okay
that's alright I mean it's not ideal and
some of your and you finished you please
listen up because then we build a Burger
King and and I don't know what it was I
mean so I thought like their other
Korean kids that they would at least
talk to me but they're mostly second
generation Korean Americans so they
didn't speak much Korean and I wasn't
wearing the right clothes I certainly
didn't speak the language that I have
the right haircut I didn't play the
right sport whatever so I wasn't part of
the cool crowd I was part of the looser
crowd right so hardly anyone would sit
with me at Burger King but the worst of
all experience and this is before Robert
Putnam wrote this book called Bowling
Alone it was two ball alone and one good
thing was you have the whole alley to me
sometimes people join you but then a lot
of times I'll find myself bowling alone
and I was always pray that it'll be an
even number of kids so that somebody
will join me but sometimes when we had
odd number of kids I'll be bowling by
myself and one could one thing I could
never figure out why wouldn't this white
up pardon my french why the hell
wouldn't a youth pastor actually come
over and pull with me occasionally how I
find myself bowling alone a lot right
and this is what I'm getting it you see
a lot of times we get so heady and I'll
tell you about my own life I became a
very heavy person I did all the right
degrees and went to all the right
schools and I teach all day right right
right places but more often than not
people's problems with Christianity has
something to do with the heady issues an
intellectual hang-ups and so on but more
often than
not is the stories of heard the stories
of rejection stories of people saying
we're supposed to embody the gospel in a
more compelling and endearing way they
end up doing the very opposite so think
about the sense of alienation and
rejection you would feel if you go to a
triple beefing bible-study Burger King
and bowling and you are basically alone
the whole time so by the time I was
accepted to Yale University and we were
driving up from Wilmington Delaware to
New Haven Connecticut and my mom had
become sort of very excited as a
Christian so she read the entire book of
Proverbs to me she said you know I want
you to gain the Solomonic wisdom and I
hope you become a really and then you're
going to another nation's finest
university I hope you gain that sense of
wisdom and from God was i listening
absolutely not I was so excited about
two things
one that I was getting the heck away
from the church that that youth group
experience really was absolutely the
last thing I wanted from the church and
until I graduated I really didn't have
any any friends and well there was one
guy that I kind of got to be friends
with because the one that I would after
you know the bowling and he and I will
go and smoke cigarettes and have a
couple of beers that became my friend
and there was the only friend I had I
mean so think about the irony of what
was happening right with a place that
you're supposed to find meaningful
friendship in Jesus I don't know about
the culture of Canadian Christianity but
in American Christianity if you're
smoking and drinking after your youth
group you're not usually looked upon as
a paragon of Christian virtue are you so
there was me I go to university and I
was so excited I was leaving and then so
excited that I was gonna plunge headlong
into this intellectual pursuit of the
good life and this great education so my
mom read the entire book of Proverbs and
my dad is a cannot laconic man he
doesn't say much and maybe the political
prisoner experience had kind of made him
a lot more reserved he didn't say
anything the whole Drive and he's ready
to drop me off and then he said to me
son I just have a few words to say to
you and I said okay and he goes you're
at university or your man
when it says you can do whatever you
want please don't do drugs think about
two very very contrast if counsel mom is
praying that I'll become like Solomon or
you know gain a heart of wisdom
my dad says follow any kind of
hedonistic desire you want just don't do
drugs okay because he he thought like
your coming-of-age you're now coming to
be in university and I think in Korea
much more so when you go to university
you're you're supposed to take a lot
more ownership of your life and a lot of
things that you do and this is what he
thought was the best kind of advice he
could offer me so I guess whose counsel
I took more seriously mom or dad I'm a
lot closer to my mom but at that point
in my life I took my fatherly counsel
much more seriously furthermore Yale as
as well and is one of the best
universities in the world and they have
some of the best professors and one of
the requirements for all year Li's is
that you take some humanities classes
and so I was talking to some of my
friends and I play baseball when I was
in college so and and throughout high
school so one thing that helped my
acclimation to life in America was
playing baseball so play baseball in
Korea play baseball in high school play
baseball in college and that really
helped me to kind of create my sense of
selfhood there was kind of you know in
Contra distinction to some of my other
friends so my church friends they were
cool and they drove nice cars and they
spoke English but and they look down on
me and I'll kind of look down and
they're like oh but you don't really
play sports and that's when I got to
college I was having a great time and
some of these professors were you know
people from who took their degrees from
Harvard Yale Princeton Cambridge Oxford
you know whatever right and they and
there is one particular New Testament
professor who basically said you know
what the Bible is a wonderful book but
it's really not the kind of truth that
you want to kind of hang your life on
and you would talk about the errors and
manuscript issues and and what do I know
I was an eighteen year old guy we're
just taking this religious studies class
as a second semester freshman
and bought that hook line & sinker why
two things I think as I look back one
there is an ostensible real presence of
authority the professor was gray hair
kind of old kind of guy with a tweed
jacket and had a kind of right cadence
of speech and had a right pedigree and
he was after all teaching at one of my
you know major vaunted universities and
he was pontificating saying that the
Bible is a helpful cultural document but
you know if you really know the truth
that actually you know that's not true
but furthermore there is also the desire
of the heart for me to want to walk away
from anything that the Bible had to say
two things about that one because of my
experience with some of my youth group
friends were friends in scarecrows were
alleged friends were people that I hear
space with for every Friday night on
Sunday I didn't like them they certainly
didn't like me if this is a Christianity
so I want to dive my personal agenda to
reject Christianity or walk away from it
and also there is a thing called the
lifestyle choices that I was pursuing
that if I understand anything about
Christianity that I shouldn't be doing I
don't know about you but at least for me
at that time in my life people were just
you know objects of conquest right life
was about conquest I gotta go get a
degree so get something get a job get
get hammered go get du du-de get get
this get this get that so is it pathway
toward conquest but somehow I understood
it as I was you know going to church so
my mom said you know what you don't have
to do whatever but she always remembered
this is a day I was a freshman in 1986
this is the days without and before
blackberry or snapchat or it was rotary
phones you remember that was rotary
phones and so I talked to my mom once a
week she never asked me like how I was
doing in school she would ask me did you
go to church and for whatever reason I'm
because my mom had a very difficult kind
of marriage and there was a lot of
issues of domestic you know whatever and
so I didn't I loathe my dad loved
my mom and I hated Christianity yet
because my mom would ask me did you go
to church
I decided hung over that I was Sunday
morning and I'm not answering like
severely hungover I would go to the
dining dining hall grab some food and
hop on the shuttle bus they will take me
to a Korean Church in New Haven there
are a couple of reasons that I went one
because of my mom - that's the only
place you could get Korean food I would
go there I remember this one sermon how
odd this thing was / like so I go to
this church and the pastor college Paris
was preaching and I don't know how what
possessed him to do it but he was doing
some degree in Old Testament at Yale but
he was preaching from guess what book in
the Old Testament Song of Songs you know
anything about song of son he was
offering the sort of Bernardin kind of
allegorical interpretation but I made a
terrible mistake who actually reading
the text I was like holy crap this is
the Bible and imagine if your first
entre point to secret scripture is a
woman's breasts I was like this is a
great book
I'll say oh my god is this that the Holy
Bible is I took I turned over is it is
this Holy Bible and it went back to the
song of something what about this book
is holy I don't understand so in college
I was genuine you're confused guy
hedonistic to the core career is to the
core and I just was really and I was
excited about being there excited about
being a baseball player I was excited
about studying all of these things so I
died I became an econ major did well
love life
and life was going just steadily on
course until something happened my
sister decided to get engaged to a guy
who was in seminary and I was like what
I mean like nothing could be harder to
me than that like why would you ever
want to marry somebody who was going
into Christian ministry mind you I was
going to church every Sunday in them
know at night every two Sundays Driessen
it wasn't like every Sunday thing but on
on average I would go at least twice a
month to get Korean food and because of
my loving mother who would always ask me
did you go to church and I don't know
what it is but I could not lie to my mom
I mean all I had to do is if I had to
kind of as you know heart that was
seared as with hot iron I could've just
said yeah I went to church no I couldn't
do that to her
or just that mom on the other line was
asking did you go to church so to
satisfy her I would say yeah and I did
go to church and and were so many times
I'd be falling asleep and I wake up and
then and out always so when I think
about when I was in ministry for a
little while I I think back on those
days and I did preach a few sermons and
a song of songs to see what kind of
response I would get from the audience
but you know so Yael was a very exciting
time period my sister was getting
engaged and one of the things that my
mom asked me to do and if my dad had
asked me if my sister had asked me I
wouldn't have done it but my mom my mom
said you know what could you go to this
retreat that your brother-in-law to be
he's gonna be speaking at I said what is
that I I don't want to go to retreat and
because his Christmas break I was gonna
have a great time with some of my
friends not my church friends but my
other friends and you know and mom said
you know this is gonna be held in the
Poconos and you know I think he along
with other people are organizing this
college retreat I think you would and
she said she said you don't have to go
because of Jesus she said but do it for
me and for the family your sister is
about to marry a pastor
and what what would how bad will look
for our family if none of your sisters
siblings actually believed in Jesus so
here that very little to do with saving
faith as an FAI th but it had everything
to a saving face of the family FAC a so
I I went to the retreat regretting like
what am I doing here and everything
about the retreat was terrible the food
was bad like the kind of people that
were there I don't like I don't want to
happen but then I was training to be
interesting as my brother-in-law was
always asked me is everything okay so
yeah right secretly I didn't like him
and I was like why is my sister marrying
this loser guy and and he said he was a
medical doctor but he decided God called
the ministry and I talked him is like
why would you do that is that God call
me and I remember telling him with this
one one-word answer so like he says God
Tommy and I said so and he looked at me
and it was his and he stole married to
my sister and is a great great guy and
last evening of the retreat and I I was
so ready to go home I said yeah this is
it like you know everything I because I
remember I did my duty right just I had
to show up to the retreat mom said you
don't have to do anything just go stay
for the whole time I mean kind of
minimal requirement right so I'm going
there and then the last night of the
retreat and I wish I mean I'm not making
this up I'm just the whole thing sucked
and the praise team was up here and they
weren't like these two bands that were
up here last night in today like really
great there are a kind of a group of
college you know pastors and seminarians
mostly from the seminary that I handed
up going to later on but anyway they
were playing this song and I never heard
the song before I had heard of Agustin
because of you know see the Western Civ
but I didn't really know about
Augustine's conversion narrative so this
is what happened they're saying this
song I later on found out was written by
and was Keith Green and I later on found
out is from First Samuel it's the song
that some of the older people here
probably remember or recognize a song to
obey is better than sacrifice I don't
need your money I want your life bad you
know what happened I'm sitting in the
back row nothing was good about this
retreat nothing about the
musical aesthetics was pleasing to me I
never heard this song before and guess
what happened I began to sob something
about that song to obey is better than
sacrifice I don't need your money I want
your life just spoke into my soul I just
began bawling because a week before the
retreat
I told my sister something that that
hurt her but was sincere of coming from
me I said you know I don't know what
you're doing marrying this loser guy but
it's your life you're going to med
school and you're gonna be here but
you're gonna be married to this poor
pastor I'm an econ major at Yale I'll
make a lot of money after I'm done I'm
gonna give you a lot of money to help
your ministry right so that was just a
week before any man tried to put
yourself in that situation you're not
introduced to christianity properly and
you hear this song that was terrible but
the words are such that to obey is
better than sacrifice I don't need your
money out on your life and guess what I
had heard it as if it was God remember
it was I don't need your money I want
your life I didn't hear it as if the
praise team member was speaking to me I
heard it as it was God speaking to me
and says I don't need your money I want
your life and from age 9 until that
moment I never cry I never cry because
my dad if he doesn't hear and told me
although he did teach me real men don't
cry as I said oh yes sir I will not cry
but at that moment in my life I just
kind of it just all the defenses that
I'd built up just broke down I didn't
and I couldn't tell you so that's why I
couldn't tell you what happened it
wasn't by so I'm deal like to have a
Calvinist but it wasn't by reading John
Calvin it wasn't by reading anything of
that sort of apologetic literature it
was by listening to a song that I hadn't
heard before and it was I and I still
remember that experience was what really
kind of turned me on to the gospel among
other things one could say it was that
experience that really basically
converted me if you want to use the
language conversion it wasn't so it
might have been accumulative no I think
was definitively that song
those words that I heard as God was
addressing me and then as I was crying I
actually began to like like cry like I
began okay and I don't you know and then
my brother-in-law came over like rushed
over or like are you okay and I said
yeah I'm okay and I just like hugged him
and said I'm really really sorry I'm
really sorry because I hated you and I'm
sorry that I and and I feel bad like if
you fight if my brother-in-law said to
me I would like punch him in the face of
what did you say well he's like it's
okay man it's okay and and and I told
him you know I think it's God speaking
to me and I didn't have the right
language and and and I was done and then
and then I remember that night at the
end and I cried so much my eyes are like
also I'm like I don't just I was a mess
and I'm going to sleep that night and to
kind of prominent emotions were one of
joy and the other of confusion so if
some of you are looking into
Christianity I'm oh some of your like
some of you would my experience of
conversion was Joey and confusion I was
like excited that I think God is because
all my life since age 9 was trying to
get to the next stage trying to get to
the next stage trying to get to the next
stage because the end will be better
than where I am now that's what I was
told
right and that's and that I was running
through and jumping through all these
hoops and basically what I came to
understand was God was saying you know
you belong to me and and I guess is
maybe conjecture but I began to think
that it's okay there's a sense of joy
and security it's almost as if God was
saying I got you you don't have to try
anymore but then I was confused because
the question was now what like now what
because if my friends in Alice here if I
told my worry was okay I'm going to go
back to University in a week and we're
gonna talk about our winter like exploit
and the highlight of my winter the
highlight of my life does far was
becoming a Christian and rather than
getting excited I was deeply worried so
I took the train for Wilmington Delaware
to New Haven
got off the train tip the cab and went
back to my dorm room and and just to
give you a sense of what my dorm room
was like we are seven guys living
together and we are what is called a
kegerator you know what a kegerator is a
refrigerator with a beer tab attached
and you have a keg in the refrigerator
all the time just the kind of very slim
snapshot of what my life was well among
other things we were like we love beer
and so just that's what it were and
we're always playing cards or backgammon
and we had that we all came back and
that night and we got some pizza and
hanging out drinking beer and they were
all talking about what happened during
the winter break and there are seven of
us but they're surface of other guys
joined in so they were about twelve of
us or so maybe thirteen and all going
around talking about yeah I did this I
did that and I got whatever and you know
talking about what happened that will
you know dream during the winter winter
break came time for me and I was kind of
you know just going circle and it's like
I was trying to figure out okay look and
I was actually praying Lord what should
I say hey I was excited I wanted to tell
my friends about what happened but I was
worried that they wouldn't believe me I
was worried that like you know you can't
be a Christian because to be honest with
you when I went to church I didn't tell
my friends like because I do now go to
get Korean food or because my mom was
asking you know that really as we worry
boys you go out often say like I want to
study in the library something like that
but now I have to really face the truth
okay so guys are you know getting
slightly inebriated but they're all
having a great time and it came time for
me so hey so they you know my last time
being limp they they always called me
lemons I blue what you do so you know I
had a pretty good break you know and
then I conveyed off I'm not mad I said
something and then I said you know and
and another thing is I became a
Christian
and it's almost like you know that the
record is playing the key right stop the
music stops is like but what you say and
the one one of my friends mark turned to
music what did you say I said I said
what I said was I became a Christian and
they all kind of stared at me and then
one guy said to me yeah but you know you
do everything kind of extreme anyways so
it'll just but it'll be it's just
passing phase and I remember saying yeah
maybe but but I think it's kind of
different and then II want to hear it
and which is understandable response I
mean cuz all having a good time and you
don't wanna you don't wanna have some
Christmas like yeah I became a Christian
I like how are you gonna respond to a
let's all bow our heads and pray I mean
expected I'll likely respond so they're
like okay whatever just don't and one
guy said to me just make sure do
everything in moderation don't go like
overboard the irony is that every one of
my friends go overboard every Thursday
Friday Saturday night what do you mean
don't go overboard I mean let's what
United srmo but religion don't go
overboard now please second semester
junior year was my loneliest time people
will be partying it up because I I had a
cult I had to call it cold turkey
because my life that was like this is
not compatible with I'm not against
people drinking this Christian not at
all but like the way that I was imbibing
was definitely not the way that would
honor God and the kind of thoughts and
behaviors and beliefs that I would have
while drinking after you know that not
good and I began to read a Bible and I
did this is just my because he never
happened before never happened since
that one semester I read the Bibles of
my brother-in-law gave me NIV this NIV
student Bible I devoured that thing I
read that Bible cover-to-cover
seven times in one semester you know why
because I was so lonely
I think I want to know this god I I want
to know about this guy I just want to
know it's a read the Bible and okay read
the Song of Songs but then as I read
through those Old Testament weirder
stories are popping up you know talking
donkey and I was like how do we
understand this and go through that you
know and go through the Gospel of you
know Matthew and then like the
resurrection story was that was
believable but then you know and I think
the Matthews version were like dead
people walk around and and my question
was like what happened to them do they
stay alive what did they experience the
second death I don't know if a lot of
questions arose from me so 7 times
reading the Bible answered a lot I mean
it's just kind of a seeping into my
being because if you read any book 7
times you're gonna start to kind of
believe in and then and I'm not saying
that some kind of you know whatever
induced kind of a mass hysteria or
anything like that but I I began to
believe in the person behind the Bible
said okay he must be real but I had a
lot of questions like but but you know
like so what did i do i that was about
to finish with my econ major so i I did
philosophy as my second major philosophy
of religion in particular and one of the
courses that I took then that really
rocked my world was a course called
divine sovereignty and human
self-assertion as part of religious
studies and I think one of the reasons
why I'm doing what I'm doing being kind
of in some ways kind of lonely as an
evangelical scholar teaching at a
secular University is because there
weren't that many Christian professors
who are what I would call out Christians
will see a Gamow Christian you can ask
me questions I think there were
Christian professors at Yale as there
are many other universities like
Universiade WA and you know other places
but they may not feel comfortable coming
out of the closet or whatever and I
remember doing taking that class and
reading this one book I know the his
name was mentioned earlier this morning
sren kierkegaard he wrote this book
called fear and trembling it's a story
of the akhada right it's the story of
Abraham being called to sacrifice his
one and only son Isaac and again that
book buyer car just rocked my world as a
woe and I wrote my senior thesis
on that book and I recently have some
class of 90 so it was I found that paper
that was about 40 page paper and I was
like oh and it was one of my files and I
said because remember that's done before
like floppy discus and all that it was
hard so I found a hard copy and I was
like wow that's what I used to think
about the Lauren and I was like I can't
believe I got this good oh great I was
not that great but nevertheless so I
think loving God with my mind was one of
the new emmos that I began to have so I
began cuz God answered a lot of
questions of my heart that I began to
understand a little bit better about the
Odyssey although why my dad was
incarcerated why our family had to
suffer that shame and division and move
from two-story home to my mom's friend's
basement with no bathroom I still didn't
quite understand all the thearc old
issues but what began to emerge from me
was the answer in the person of Jesus
Christ and I think the more I think
about God in Christ the more I get
shivers because I mean I I was like when
I think about the immensity of our
universe and cosmos I think of those
song by Pink Floyd is there anybody out
there is there anybody out there and
that's a haunting question that could
leave you even more vulnerable and
lonely because in that immensity of our
universe is there anybody there so for
me to answer that particular question
has to be for me grounded in the person
and work of Jesus Christ and then I
began to have some comfort so but by the
time I was done with my university
career I knew that Jesus was my Lord and
my god and I knew that my life was
turned around
lonely though I was confused though I
was so if somebody were to say if you
become a Christian your loneliness will
go away and you will have clarity for
some is true I think me that wasn't true
I was even lonelier because though guys
are you so hung hang around with him
girls are you saying around they
basically because we weren't doing the
same thing
I wasn't doing the same and so left
University went down in New York City
took a job and
and did corporate finance and I was
starting to wax and wane in my Christian
commitment and my sister had gotten in
contact with one of her friends who was
serving at this Korean Presbyterian
Church in Flushing and she signed me up
as a youth group teacher she said
knowing you you go to this city of New
York you're gonna you old habits will
come out you're gonna party you're gonna
go clubbing you're gonna drink you're
gonna do this and that and you're gonna
walk away from Jesus I know you so I
never had that opportunity I just never
so I got a and you know one thing that
happened was in this particular church
there are a lot of kids about 15 16 I
came to America when I was 1516
they were often in trouble with the law
I still remember this one guy I mean I
don't know why I did it I think he told
me later on that he did it to impress
girls he actually brought a gun to
church he was part of this kind of
Chinatown gang and and it's like hey
mister come here and he was hey Paul
come here I want to show you something I
said what is that
and he goes hey and then he was it it's
a corner I'm gonna be so shocked it was
like what what are you doing and and
it's being involved with because they
somehow like me I was not dating anybody
I had a pretty good income so a lot of
these guys would come out and we'll go
to like Smith & Wollensky or
some like nice steak houses and I would
they would I think they kind of took
advantage of me but it's okay but I was
gonna I need so I I hung out with these
guys but then I realized and this is
what the youth pastor said is a very
conservative Presbyterian man and he
said you know what mr. Lim I know you
have a lot you have good good income but
I also know that you went to Yale and
study philosophy religion so I don't
really trust you so don't teach them the
Bible just play with them so I was a guy
who has a money and who is some athletic
ability he goes I don't really trust
your theology so what's gonna just go
play with them buy them lunch and dinner
but there will be a role that is really
needed in our church right now I said
okay I'll be that guy so one thing that
happened was while I study philosophy of
religion but that didn't really answer a
lot of the Bible questions that I had so
I read the Bible seven times on eight or
nine times since then I still had a lot
of questions and I was about to go to
law school but I remember telling my
parents because I had this desire and I
remember talking to my brother-in-law
and that was a real shock to everybody
because when I told my brother-in-law
that I actually was thinking about going
to seminary to study the Bible just for
a little bit and afterward I'll go to
look law school my brother in law was
really shocked he's like what you want
to study I said yeah I just just a
little bit I mean I'm not and remember
telling I'm not gonna be pastor like you
but you know better than the head and
but I just ought to go study your Bible
a little bit and so I did I went to
seminary to study the Bible and I really
was fully intent on going to law school
afterward and go be a corporate lawyer
because as an immigrant family my
parents said you know you got to make a
lot of money and you know be comfortable
and you know live in Long Island and you
know have a Beemer and have a couple of
kids and couple of dogs and a cat and
your life is great you made it in in
America and I remember my dad saying to
me and it's kind of extreme guys like
you know like you know those like like
blood promise it's like swear with your
blood that you're gonna go to law school
I said what I'm not gonna do that like
are you serious about that because he
goes I know you do everything in Xtreme
I said what's look who's speaking here
I'll you want me to like and he says it
doesn't hurt that much just do it it's
okay so I sign with my legacy I'm gonna
go to law school and my dad's like okay
you better do that now go to seminary
God got a hold on me more questions
about the Bible arose and theology but
it wasn't a question again they were not
defeated kind of questions I was like I
want to know more I want to know more
and the next thing I knew my professors
at seminary at biblical seminary they
were saying you know I three we think
that you really have this intellectual
curiosity and the right accoutrements
that we think you should go study and
get your PhD and come back and teach
with us and I never thought about that
and I remember telling my dad you know I
think I'm and he was like yeah when I
knew that when I heard that you're going
to seminary I knew that you're lost
forever
because as far as he was concerned I was
a lost cause you know he thought I was
doing everything in Xtreme for him
Christianity is opiate of the masses
my mom's a devoted Christian my dad is
not and so and so to fast-forward a
little bit because I have not a lot of
time that's supposed to last night when
I had plenty of time so the experience
of you know that that seminary so
incarceration immigration and
identification that I there is somebody
would identify with me and then I went
to law not law school or grad school and
when I was finishing up I I was at
Cambridge in 2001 I thought were gonna
go to India and the Lord closed that
door and the door was opened up at a
school that I and he heard heard of and
had a lot of respect for Gordon Conwell
Theological Seminary in Boston so I
began my kind of journey there and that
is the sort of an inquiry for me I think
I have a lot of questions about the
Christian faith but it's not the sort of
questions that would be like yeah I
don't believe this anymore I come to
realize at least at Vanderbilt where I
teach a lot of students were basically I
need a lot of them come from the south
and they have questions about the Bible
or Jesus or Christianity and oftentimes
youth pastor will say things like don't
ask those questions the ultimately
unhelpful or something to that effect
and I felt like you know I was
thankfully surrounded by people who
didn't say don't ask those questions
they're like okay let's think about it
together
and wanted one of the persons was my
brother who's an Old Testament professor
and in Korea now and this is before he
and his my sister left to go to South
Africa for their for his PhDs
stellenbosch and he said you know what
Paul I know you have a lot of questions
and they're they're great and he said my
prayer for you that you'll be surrounded
by people who will not say your
questions are stupid and guess what I
mean I became a professor I can ask all
kinds of questions and I get paid
putting good amount of money to raise
these questions about the Christian
faith and students who said you know doc
tell him I also had the same question I
said that's right let's think about that
together and I often say you know what
my journey as an academic
my courses are never meant as a faith
faith posture courses so I teach about
history of Christianity and teach about
currently I'm teaching a course on human
rights in human trafficking remaking of
a global Christianity and courses like
that they're not meant as a faith
posture course nor as a faith builder of
course necessarily as a historian want
to see this phenomenon since late Middle
Ages - about early enlightenment period
critically and and do the best you can
and I always say look I'm a Christian
that means all that I do and all that I
am is as this kind of mode of Fidesz
Korins intellect or faith seeking
understanding I believe that God is I
believe that God exists and we're trying
to figure out the ways of God in history
and I think for me in my life journey
it's been great it's just there's types
of inquiry that I have and I still have
a lot of questions I think I'm sort of
you know I'm really grateful to the Lord
that I found my calling
accidentally right because I so my wife
and I and our son lived with freshmen
for seven years at the Ndebele we
started this kind of residential college
system and so all these 18 year old kids
come to Vanderbilt and saying I want to
do this that I want to beat had and I
have to say you know chillax you don't
have to have everything figured out like
why I mean because I don't look it
wasn't until I was like 25 that I kind
of figured out this may be what I want
to do with my life and so often I think
we're living with so much pressure so
much pressure to make something in the
world or be be counted for something
bigger than yourself and for Christians
I think the pressure is even greater for
those of you are Christians because you
feel like I got a I'm serving this
mighty Lord and I want to make a
difference in the world in in the
kingdom of God but I think as a reformed
person as a Calvinist you know what what
I come to realize is that it's really
not up to you God's got it covered and I
regarded as a pure privilege to be
playing for the team I mean what's the
best NHL team right now Ottawa okay
Ottawa Senators how many of you played
hockey before I play hockey work okay
would you regard it as a real privilege
if the Ottawa Senators said can you be
our starting like defenseman oh come on
myself okay Toronto wouldn't Maple Leafs
is that right okay
if Toronto Maple Leafs called you can
you be our starting defenseman would you
not be excited absolutely and you know
what the way that I see it is you know
what what I do how I see my identity is
you know God is the Celest that the best
coach ever of hockey or whatever sport
you like and God has called me would you
like to play for my team I know I don't
have what it takes to be on that team I
don't yet God has calling me and you're
not not only gonna be on the team you're
gonna be starting you're gonna be
starting and I will never criticize you
I'll never make fun of you I'll never
ridicule you but you got it brother and
no consequence is gonna be asked you do
best I got you covered
you know what to me that is the joy of
being a follower of Jesus being
discovered by God coming to realize you
know you don't have to jump through so
many more hoops to be more acceptable to
me or to be more righteous no no no no I
think and for me I studying a lot and I
guess that's been my my life's goal as
an academic and all that right I mean
win a book prize and major fellowships
all of those things don't mean jack
squat because in the end it is this
awesome knowledge of knowing Jesus let
me finish his illustration so I was
invited to give a talk at at at London
University and and I was doing some
research my field of expertise is 17th
century England so I was doing some
archival work at the British Library and
if you ever been to the but if you ever
go to London stop by the British Library
and you don't have to go in but you just
go in walk up the steps and you will see
this huge glass power of stats if you're
like five stories high of stacks of all
manuscripts and medieval books and so on
it's like this tall and this thick and
there
our of them and I just stood there and
I'm thinking like wow you know I had
written a few you know a couple of books
and editor you know one and all that
like we're looking at this thing and now
just like completely Pig Mead by the
immensity of human knowledge and
acquisition contain localized only in
this small library the British Library
but think about my own arrogance of
thinking that I I knew what I was
talking about you see God is much
grander than that much deeper than that
and yet he calls you you belong to me
and I want to hang out with you in that
journey of fellowship and discipleship
may you find true joy that can only come
from this God of love and truth and
mercy let's pray together if that's okay
nor I want to thank you I want to thank
you that you are the God of our stories
that you are the god of history but I
want to encourage my brothers and
sisters who are gathered here who have
been found by you but I also want to
pray especially for those who are
outside looking in through their stories
of hurt through their stories of
betrayal or rejection or loneliness
within the church that they may have
felt like I don't want to be a part of
this or maybe they have a lot of
questions about Christian men and women
behaving badly or the questions of evil
in the world starting within our own
hearts god I pray that you'll help all
of us to find the truth in you because
you will be the kind of God who will say
go ahead ask me more questions having
those questions can never be defeatist
for you to walk away from me help us to
experience you more deeply and more
really in our earthly sojourn we thank
you God in your name we pray amen thank
you very much
[Music]
you